Added a lighttpd reverse proxy example (#5900)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/system-administration/reverse-proxy-configuration-with-jenkins/reverse-proxy-configuration-lighttpd.adoc

---
layout: subsection
---

ifdef::backend-html5[]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../../resources/managing]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

[[running-jenkins-behind-lighttpd]]
= Reverse proxy - Lighttpd

> In situations where you have existing web sites on your server, you may
> find it useful to run Jenkins (or the servlet container that Jenkins
> runs in) behind https://www.lighttpd.net/[Lighttpd], so that you can bind Jenkins
> to the part of a bigger website that you may have or just centralize the TLS
> termination in a single place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In situations where you have existing web sites on your server, you may find it useful to run Jenkins (or the servlet container that Jenkins runs in) behind https://www.lighttpd.net/[Lighttpd].
This allows you to bind Jenkins to the part of a bigger website that you may have or centralize the TLS termination in a single place.
```
Ideally one sentence per line (which makes it easier to review), but thought this might be a bit long so separated it into two sentences. I believe the message remains the same, but please let me know if there's any sort of discrepency!

This section discusses some of the approaches for doing this.

> The https://redmine.lighttpd.net/projects/lighttpd/wiki/Mod_proxy[mod_proxy] works
> by making Lighttpd perform as a "reverse proxy" — when a request arrives for
> certain URLs, Lighttpd becomes a proxy and forwards that request to
> Jenkins, then forwards the response from Jenkins back to the client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link:https://redmine.lighttpd.net/projects/lighttpd/wiki/Mod_proxy[mod_proxy] works
by making Lighttpd perform as a "reverse proxy".
This means when a request arrives for certain URLs, Lighttpd becomes a proxy and forwards that request to Jenkins, then forwards the response from Jenkins back to the client. 
```
just trying to break up the sentences a bit/format accordingly, again, if this takes away from the message please disregard

> There are several different alternatives to configure Jenkins with Lighttpd.
> Choose the technique that best meets your needs:
> 
> * <<By host>>
> * <<By path>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two alternatives to configure Jenkins with Lighttpd.
Select the technique that best meets your needs:

* <<By host>>
* <<By path>>
```
if there are other alternatives, it would be best to list them here as well, otherwise the use of "several" doesn't make as much sense

> By https://www.lighttpd.net/2018/11/28/1.4.52/[default] Lighttpd will force
> the URL normalization, mismatching the headers used by internal Jenkins reverse
> proxy test, showing the message *It appears that your reverse proxy setup is broken*
> on the manage page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By link:https://www.lighttpd.net/2018/11/28/1.4.52/[default], Lighttpd will force the URL normalization, thus mismatching the headers used by an internal Jenkins reverse
proxy test.
This results in showing the message *It appears that your reverse proxy setup is broken* on the manage page.
```
same as above, just trying to make multiple sentences/one sentence per line

To avoid this, explicit disable the option `url-path-2f-decode`.

== By host

In the configuration below there is no context path for Jenkins URL.

> When a request for the domain `jenkins.example.com` arrives, Lighttpd
> proxy this request to Jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a request for the domain `jenkins.example.com` arrives, Lighttpd proxies this request to Jenkins.
```
This seems like an area where it should be performing the proxy, but the way it is written does not necessarily convey that. Either making it an action verb or adding a word between Lighttpd and proxy.

Author: I added the "proxies" verb in the original and will reject only this.

[source]
----
server.http-parseopts = (
  "url-path-2f-decode" => "disable"
)

server.modules += ( "mod_proxy" )

$HTTP["host"] == "jenkins.example.com" {
  proxy.balance = "hash"
  proxy.server = ( 
    "" => (
      "jenkins" => (
        "host" => "127.0.0.1",
        "port" => "8080"
      )
    ) 
  )
}
----

This assumes that you run Jenkins on port 8080.

== By path

In the configuration below there is a specific path `/jenkins` for Jenkins.

> This path should be configured in Lighttpd with `$HTTP["url"]` and inside Jenkins
> setting the context path by modifying the jenkins.xml configuration file and adding 
> `--prefix=/jenkins` (or similar) to the <arguments> entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This path should be configured in Lighttpd with `$HTTP["url"]`.
In Jenkins, set the context path by modifying the jenkins.xml configuration file and adding  `--prefix=/jenkins` (or similar) to the <arguments> entry.
```
small suggestion to update formatting and content

> When a request is made to, for example `http://localhost/jenkins`, Lighttpd proxies this

Author: I added the "proxies" verb here in the original.

> When a request is made to, for example `http://localhost/jenkins`, Lighttpd
> proxy this request to Jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a request is made to, for example `http://localhost/jenkins`, Lighttpd proxy this request to Jenkins.
```
small formatting suggestion, could proxies/"then proxies this request" be used in this case as well?

Author: I don't know :/ probably yes, the tradutor accept proxies in some portuguese sentences that I tested here.
